# maxwells-daemon


For this project I designed a graphical user interface (GUI) using SWING containers and other components of event-driven programming available in Java's AWT library. The GUI will serve as a simple demonstrational game simulation of James Maxwell's hypothesized "Demon" (i prefer Daemon) described to be some entity capable of deliberate particle maniplation to the point of reversed entropy which is a big no-no according to the second law of thermodynamics. 

To implement a game simulation of Maxwell's Demon, we first need to design and implement a simplified phyical system which has most behaviorial attributes defined in the Particle Class of Maxwell.java. Particle class objects have attributes of both current and previous x and y coordinates (four total per object) along with active x and y vectors randomly assigned upon instantiation; these 6-total attributes are of type double. Asside from the declarative instace of any particle where start coordinates are static and vectors randomized; vectors and current coordinates are actively calculated for frame-by-frame movement simulation. Minimal kinematic events are necessary for a basic interactive simulation of Maxwell's Demon; this allows for the maintenance of constant speed across all particles and the exclusion of particle-particle collision-detection and resolution in this very simplified physical system. Still, the window and panel barriers of the GUI and the user-controlled "Demon Gate" all have collision-detection and resolution as these events are both necessary to simulate Maxwell's thought experiment and easy to implement. Particle collisions with barriers are one dimensional reversals, therefore impact with a vertical barrier is equivalent to -1 * (a particle's x-vector), which also describes resolution upon collision with an impermeable Demon Gate; and -1 * (y-vector) for particle collisoin with a horizontal barrier. 

The particle class is extended by hot (HawtParticle) and cold (ChillParticle) children (i thought it'd be funnier than it is). These are visually differentiated as red-hot and blue-cold respectively with kinematic properties of speed and temperature externally applied or calculated as left and right chamber temperatures are summated by local particle totals with hot and cold particle temperatures being 3-degrees and 1-degree respectively in contribution to temperature totals. Hot and cold particle speeds are set in the moveIt() function where static multipliers of 5 and 2.5 are applied (again) respectively to hot and cold particles where all events operate on a global unit of time for event tracking "changeT". However, variation in vector magnitude results in varied particle speeds even in multiplier products. That said, the extent of handling for particle tunneling (so far) is accomplished by ranged vector reversal in collision-detection and response which is pretty ghetto. However, in continuous development I plan on refining this with retroactive vector correction and, ideally, working-in "sweep and prune" particle-particle collision detection-resolution among other overly optimistic additions to this litle interactive physical system based on Maxwell's Demon; it'll be good practice in developing more complex physics engines. 

Containing and gamifying this simplified kinematic system is the bulk of the actual GUI consisting of 1) buttons that individually add particles and reset the simulation, 2) left and right chamber temperature totals (stored and traverses in fast and slow vectors binary temperature value) calculated on each changeT event, and 3) mouse action events that toggle Demon Gate permeability and color identification (blue = permeable, red = bonk). 

check back here for updates, happy simulating
